RSA Algorithm
    RSA Algorithm is based on factorization of large number and modular arithmetic for encrypting and decrypting data. It consists of three main 
   
    stages:
    Key Generation: Creating Public and Private Keys
    Encryption: Sender encrypts the data using Public Key to get cipher text.
    Decryption: Decrypting the cipher text using Private Key to get the original data.

    1. Key Generation

        Choose two large prime numbers, say p and q. These prime numbers should be kept secret.
        Calculate the product of primes, n = p * q. This product is part of the public as well as the private key.
        Calculate Euler Totient FunctionΦ(n) as Φ(n) = Φ(p * q) = Φ(p) * Φ(q) = (p - 1) * (q - 1).
        Choose encryption exponent e, such that
        1 < e < Φ(n), and
        gcd(e, Φ(n)) = 1, that is e should be co-prime with Φ(n).
        Calculate decryption exponent d, such that
        (d * e) ≡ 1 mod Φ(n), that is d is modular multiplicative inverse of e mod Φ(n). Some common methods to calculate multiplicative inverse are: Extended Euclidean Algorithm, Fermat's Little Theorem, etc.
        We can have multiple values of d satisfying (d * e) ≡ 1 mod Φ(n) but it does not matter which value we choose as all of them are valid keys and will result into same message on decryption.
        Finally, the Public Key = (n, e) and the Private Key = (n, d).

    2. Encryption

        To encrypt a message M, it is first converted to numerical representation using ASCII and other encoding schemes. Now, use the public key (n, e) to encrypt the message and get the cipher text using the formula:

        C = Me mod n, where C is the Cipher text and e and n are parts of public key.

    3. Decryption

        To decrypt the cipher text C, use the private key (n, d) and get the original data using the formula:

        M = Cd mod n, where M is the message and d and n are parts of private key.

Diffie-Hellman algorithm:
    The Diffie-Hellman algorithm is being used to establish a shared secret that can be used for secret communications while exchanging data over a public network using the elliptic curve to generate points and get the secret key using the parameters.  

    For the sake of simplicity and practical implementation of the algorithm, we will consider only 4 variables, one prime P and G (a primitive root of P) and two private values a and b.
    P and G are both publicly available numbers. Users (say Alice and Bob) pick private values a and b and they generate a key and exchange it publicly. The opposite person receives the key and that generates a secret key, after which they have the same secret key to encrypt.

    Step 1: Alice and Bob get public numbers P = 23, G = 9
    Step 2: Alice selected a private key a = 4 and
            Bob selected a private key b = 3
    Step 3: Alice and Bob compute public values
    Alice:    x =(9^4 mod 23) = (6561 mod 23) = 6
            Bob:    y = (9^3 mod 23) = (729 mod 23)  = 16
    Step 4: Alice and Bob exchange public numbers
    Step 5: Alice receives public key y =16 and
            Bob receives public key x = 6
    Step 6: Alice and Bob compute symmetric keys
            Alice:  ka = y^a mod p = 65536 mod 23 = 9
            Bob:    kb = x^b mod p = 216 mod 23 = 9
    Step 7: 9 is the shared secret.





AES
    AES is a Block Cipher.
    The key size can be 128/192/256 bits.
    Encrypts data in blocks of 128 bits each.
    That means it takes 128 bits as input and outputs 128 bits of encrypted cipher text. AES relies on the substitution-permutation network principle, which is performed using a series of linked operations that involve replacing and shuffling the input data.

DES
    We live so much of our lives today on the internet. Whether it’s for storing our personal information, finding entertainment, making purchases, or doing our jobs, our society relies increasingly on an online presence.

    This increased dependence on the internet means that information security is more important than ever. The stakes are too high now. Users need to know that their sensitive data is kept confidential, unmodified, and readily available to authorized readers.

    Data encryption is just one weapon in the cybersecurity arsenal, but it’s one of the oldest and most used. And since no discussion about data encryption is complete without talking about DES, here we are!

    Data Encryption Standard (DES)
    DES stands for Data Encryption Standard. There are certain machines that can be used to crack the DES algorithm. The DES algorithm uses a key of 56-bit size. Using this key, the DES takes a block of 64-bit plain text as input and generates a block of 64-bit cipher text.

    The DES process has several steps involved in it, where each step is called a round. Depending upon the size of the key being used, the number of rounds varies. For example, a 128-bit key requires 10 rounds, a 192-bit key requires 12 rounds, and so on.

Triple DES
    What is Triple DES?
        Triple DES is an encryption algorithm based on the original Data Encryption Standard (DES). It is a symmetric encryption algorithm that uses multiple rounds of the Data Encryption Standard (DES) to improve security. It is also known as Triple DES because it uses the Data Encryption Standard (DES) cypher which takes three times to encrypt its data. It is essentially a block cypher used to encrypt data in 64-bit blocks. Security-wise, it outperforms the original Data Encryption Standard (DES). However, Triple DES is less efficient and slower than the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES).

    Features of Triple DES
        It utilizes a triple layer of encryption which means it utilizes three different keys to encrypt the plaintext three times.
        It supports variable key sizes which range from 128 bits to 192 bits.
        It basically involves the usage of a symmetric key encryption system, which states that the same key is used for both encryption and decryption.
        It is a block cypher encryption algorithm that works with 64-bit blocks of plaintext at a time.
        It is suitable for legacy systems that require secure encryption.